Devices have two means of identification, with one being permeable. These are:
  An IP Address
  A Media Access Control (MAC) Address -- think of this as being similar to a serial number.

IPv4, which uses a numbering system of 2^32 IP addresses (4.29 billion). An IP address is a set of numbers that are divided into four octets. The value of 
each octet will summarise to be the IP address of the device on the network. This number is calculated through a technique known as IP addressing & subnetting.
IP addresses can change from device to device but cannot be active simultaneously more than once within the same network.
IP Addresses follow a set of standards known as protocols. These protocols are the backbone of networking and force many 
devices to communicate in the same language.
Devices can be on both a private and public network. Depending on where they are will determine what 
type of IP address they have: a public or private IP address.
A public address is used to identify the device on the Internet, whereas a private address is used to identify a device amongst other devices.
These two devices will be able to use their private IP addresses to communicate with each other. However, any data sent to the Internet 
from either of these devices will be identified by the same public IP address. Public IP addresses are given by your Internet Service Provider.
IPv6 is a new iteration of the Internet Protocol addressing scheme to help tackle this issue. Although it is seemingly more daunting, it boasts a few benefits:
  Supports up to 2^128 of IP addresses (340 trillion-plus), resolving the issues faced with IPv4
  More efficient due to new methodologies

MAC address
Devices on a network will all have a physical network interface, which is a microchip board found on the device's motherboard. This network interface 
is assigned a unique address at the factory it was built at, called a MAC (Media Access Control ) address. The MAC address is a twelve-character hexadecimal 
number (a base sixteen numbering system used in computing to represent numbers) split into two's and separated by a colon. These colons are considered separators. 
For example, a4:c3:f0:85:ac:2d. The first six characters represent the company that made the network interface, and the last six is a unique number.
MAC addresses is that they can be faked or "spoofed" in a process known as spoofing. This spoofing occurs when a networked device pretends to identify 
as another using its MAC address. When this occurs, it can often break poorly implemented security designs that assume that devices talking on a network are trustworthy.
