Phishing is a sub-section of social engineering. Whereas social engineering is a very general term used to describe any attack that takes advantage of a human rather than a computer system, 
phishing specifically describes attacks whereby a scammer or other attacker tricks a victim into opening a malicious webpage by sending them a text message, email, or another form of online correspondence. 
Traditionally, "phishing" simply referred to emails; however, in the days of instant messaging, text messages, and voice/video calling, the term has evolved to blanket these other categories. 
These other forms are sometimes referred to individually as "smishing" — phishing over SMS — and "vishing" — phishing over voice chat — respectively.

General Phishing
A simple, mass phishing attack which doesn't target anyone in particular, although they may aim for large groups (e.g. PayPal users, or Amazon customers). 
These large-scale campaigns are usually simple and are generally (but not always) fairly easy to spot as the messages and malicious sites are often not very well crafted 
and frequently contain many immediately visible errors.

Spearphishing
More targeted than general phishing, spearphishing aims for an individual or small group (e.g. employees of a specific company). 
Spearphishing campaigns are generally better crafted than the correspondence and malicious sites used in general phishing as they are designed to target a particular group, 
often as part of a more extensive campaign against the target.

Whaling
Even more specific than spearphishing, whaling targets high-value individuals (e.g. a C-Suite executive in a target company). 
The messages are generally extremely well crafted and tend to be very hard to spot.

Example of general phishing:
An example of a popular general phishing scenario (or "pretext") would be receiving an email purportedly from "Amazon", informing you that your account has been used to buy a very costly item (e.g. the latest iPad). 
You are then provided with a link to view your purchase history. The link looks like it goes to https://amazon.co.uk but will actually take you to an attacker-controlled web application 
(that looks identical to the Amazon login page), asking you to enter your Amazon credentials. When you enter your credentials, you get redirected to the real Amazon orders page, 
where you find that there are no unauthorised purchases... yet. 
The attacker will then use your duly provided credentials to actually order expensive items with your account.

1. The attacker sends out a malicious phishing email campaign
2. Prospective victims receive the emails — some of them open the email and click the link
3. The victims enter their credentials into the attacker's fake web page
4. The web page stores the credentials or sends them directly to the attacker
5. The attacker uses the credentials to access the site, thus taking over the victims' accounts

Phishing attacks work best when the malicious web page mimics an existing (usually well-known) web page. 
For this reason, attackers/scammers will usually use one of many freely available tools to simply clone an existing page, which can then be edited at their leisure.

The end goal of a phishing attack can vary significantly depending on who is performing the attack. 
For example, a low-level scammer may simply be after sensitive information (e.g., bank details), 
whereas a high-powered group of malicious hackers may be targeting a specific organisation with the intention of causing further damage.
