SMB - Server Message Block Protocol - port 139/445, is a client-server communication protocol used for sharing access to files, printers, serial ports and other resources on a network.
Servers make file systems and other resources (printers, named pipes, APIs) available to clients on the network. Client computers may have their own hard disks, 
but they also want access to the shared file systems and printers on the servers.
The SMB protocol is known as a response-request protocol, meaning that it transmits multiple messages between the client and server to establish a connection. 
Clients connect to servers using TCP/IP (actually NetBIOS over TCP/IP as specified in RFC1001 and RFC1002), NetBEUI or IPX/SPX.

Once they have established a connection, clients can then send commands (SMBs) to the server that allow them to access shares, open files, 
read and write files, and generally do all the sort of things that you want to do with a file system. However, in the case of SMB, these things are done over the network.

Enumerating SMB
Enumeration is the process of gathering information on a target in order to find potential attack vectors and aid in exploitation.
This process is essential for an attack to be successful, as wasting time with exploits that either don't work or can crash the system can be a waste of energy. 
Enumeration can be used to gather usernames, passwords, network information, hostnames, application data, services, or any other information that may be valuable to an attacker.
Typically, there are SMB share drives on a server that can be connected to and used to view or transfer files. SMB can often be a great starting point for an attacker looking to discover sensitive information.

The first step of enumeration is to conduct a port scan, to find out as much information as you can about the services, applications, 
structure and operating system of the target machine.

Enum4linux is a tool used to enumerate SMB shares on both Windows and Linux systems. It is basically a wrapper around the tools in 
the Samba package and makes it easy to quickly extract information from the target pertaining to SMB.
The syntax of Enum4Linux is nice and simple: "enum4linux [options] ip"

TAG            FUNCTION

-U             get userlist
-M             get machine list
-N             get namelist dump (different from -U and-M)
-S             get sharelist
-P             get password policy information
-G             get group and member list

-a             all of the above (full basic enumeration)

While there are vulnerabilities such as CVE-2017-7494 that can allow remote code execution by exploiting SMB, you're more likely to encounter a situation where the best way 
into a system is due to misconfigurations in the system. In this case, we're going to be exploiting anonymous SMB share access- a common misconfiguration that can allow us 
to gain information that will lead to a shell.

Method Breakdown
So, from our enumeration stage, we know:
    - The SMB share location
    - The name of an interesting SMB share

SMBClient
Because we're trying to access an SMB share, we need a client to access resources on servers. We will be using SMBClient because it's part of the default samba suite.
We can remotely access the SMB share using the syntax:

Syntax: smbclient //[IP]/[SHARE] -U [USERNAME] -p [PORT]
Example: smbclient //10.10.10.10/secrets -U Anonymous -p 445

SMBClient Commands
Once inside the share, you can view the available commands by typing "help". The most useful of which are:
  ls or dir: List files and directories
  cd [DIR]: Move to a different directory
  get [FILE]: Download the file 
